Welcome back.
We just secured our API such that the user needs to include credentials in each request in order to
be authenticated.
Spring Security tries to match the username and password that get passed in against the user details
that are in memory.
If there is a match, it's going to send back a 200 and process, whatever operation that they were
interested in.
Otherwise it's going to send back a401.
Let's try it out.
I will need to authenticate in order to perform this get operation authentication works and the operation
gets processed if I do not include credentials.
It sends back a 401.
Authentication did not work.
All right.
It's time for step two where we implement some authorization.
You'll recall that we can only authorize admins to access the delete operation right after we authorize
requests is where we can specify some authorization rules.
We can invoke dot and matches and to match yours can apply authorization on a path that you specify
and it can also accept an HTTP method as well.
So we're going to say, you know what, let's just ignore the path for now.
We're going to apply authorization on every single method of type delete.
And all of these delete methods, they must have a role of admin.
So whoever is trying to invoke this method must have the following role in order to be authorized.
Let's try it out.
Now, if I pass in a user and followed by user pass, it's not going to work.
If I pass an admin followed by admin pass, it's still not going to work even though these credentials
match a user that has a role of admin.
The reason this happens is because spring security.
What it does is it enables c srf protection by default.
In other words, it's automatically set up to protect you from CSF attacks.
So it's expecting the client to send over some kind of CSF token, but we're not going to do that.
If you want to learn more about Ksf.
Feel free to check the link in the resources.
But the reason we're not going to dwell on it because CSR is an attack against the browsers.
Our service is exclusively used by non browsers.
For example, we're using postmen in production.
Whoever is making calls to the API will probably be making requests from another web service, which
means there will be zero point in enabling CSF protection, which is known to be expensive.
So we're going to go back here and say See SRF disable.
Turning CSR protection off.
Let's go back.
I'll start by making a delete request using the user credentials.
And beautiful.
We do get an error code, but it's the error code that makes sense.
So authentication did work because the credentials match a user that is in memory, but that user has
a roll of user, so they cannot access the following operation.
They do not have the authority.
But if an admin were to log in admin admin pass, they will not be forbidden.
They can successfully invoke the delete operation.
Now step three is pretty much already done.
So in step four, we're going to authorize users and admins to access the post method.
So here, what I'll do is I'll say dot and to matters.
I'll do the same thing.
Any HTTP method of type post needs to have.
We'll say it has any role so we can put a bunch of roles.
So anybody with a role of admin and a role of user is able to invoke post requests.
So let me go back and create some contacts.
Let's make sure.
All right.
Let's just create a bunch of Jon Snow contacts.
Works fine for user credentials.
Let's try admin credentials.
And it works great here as well.
All right.
Now, before we move on to step number five, let me play around with and to matters.
Usually you're going to have more than one delete request, right?
So you can't just say, oh, every single delete method can be accessible by admin.
What if I want to introduce some variety?
So well, let me play around with the paths a little.
What I'll do is I'll go back here and I'll call this.
I don't know, slash, delete.
Slash ID, slash contact.
And I want to match this path specifically.
So what I go back and say.
I don't know.
Slash, delete, slash contact.
Will that work?
So now let me try and make a delete request using user credentials.
And if our path successfully matches what we have over here, it should block them from making that
request.
Oh, I forgot that I changed the path to slash delete.
Slash some ID slash contact.
All right.
And unfortunately it works.
That's not good.
We only want admins to be able to delete, but the client with a roll of user is able to do so as well.
That's because this matcher does not actually match this path.
But the thing is, the ID is dynamic.
It could be anything.
So what can we put here?
And the answer is simple.
You can put an asterisk in between.
With the asterisk will do is match any amount of letters or characters in the URL.
So we start with delete, we end with contact.
But anything that comes in the middle could be any number of letters or characters.
It doesn't matter.
So if we try making that request again.
They are forbidden.
It forbids the client with a role of user.
All right.
Now, what I'm going to do is add a comment here.
That says path was changed to demo and matters.
So we're down to our last step and that is get operations can be accessed by anybody.
No authentication should be required.
So the last thing we're going to add to our security filter chain is dot and matches and any HTTP method
of type get.
We're going to say.
Permit all.
Then I now import it.
There you go.
So our filter chain specifies that anybody and everybody can access get requests, but any other request
needs to be authenticated.
So the post and delete requests and every other type of request that may exist in our API, they will
require basic authentication, but get requests will not.
So I can go back and make a get request over here without passing in any credentials.
Works fine.
I can do the same thing over here.
And that works fine as well.
If I don't include credentials here, it's going to yell at me.
401.
Unauthorized if I do include credentials.
Works perfectly if I go back here, don't include credentials, does not work.
But if I include the wrong credentials so if I try to authenticate as a user, I am forbidden.
But if I try to authenticate as an admin.
It works beautifully.
And that's really it for basic authentication.
There is one last thing I want to emphasize before we move on, and that is basic authentication should
only ever be used for small applications.
Otherwise, it's bad practice.
The only reason I taught you basic math is because it offers a simple introduction into spring security.
You have to walk before you can run, and now that you know the basics, we can take your training wheels
off and jump straight into the more secure, token based authentication using JWT.
Things are about to get really interesting, so I hope you're ready.